# IoT_Based_Car_Parking_Management_System
This project is a functional prototype of a parking lot which is technology enabled and upon implementing it to a real-life system, has the potential to resolve many of the common driver’s obstacles when it comes to parking their vehicle in a public compound. The main motivation of this project is to reduce the traffic congestion inside a parking area, ease the process of parking, facilitate the parking fee transaction, assist the parking lot administrator with daily traffic information and revenue generated, reduce carjacking and to save the environment. 
The technology used for this project is IoT and the microcontrollers adopted are Arduino MEGA and NodeMCU wherein, they are designed to communicate with each other inorder to maximise resource utilisation. 
This project enables a car driver to know the free slots available in a parking lot before entering the driveway of the parking space using an app. Once the driver is in the driveway, a boom barrier operated by the system controls the flow of the vehicles and their entry is determined by the free slots available inside the space as well as the congestion level. The driver requires an account to gain entry and their entry is denied if their balance is too low. The process of transaction is done without any contact between the driver. Once inside, the driver is informed and made aware of the nearest free spot available using a messaging app along with the directions to the nearest slot. When attempting to leave, the system also lets the driver know that the driveway is blocked/congested. A bill is produced to the driver informing them of their time spent inside and their total balance remaining using the app. The information regarding the entry and exit of each driver is recorded and stored using PHP and MySQL. An LCD display informs the drivers with adequate information, Blynk app provides smartphone interface, phpMyAdmin provides Web-app for the administrator and Telegram provides messaging capabilities.
